[Documentation] Troubleshooting installation document created (#6511)
aces/Loris: docs/wiki/00 - SERVER INSTALL AND CONFIGURATION/01 - LORIS Install/Troubleshooting.md

# Troubleshooting Common Installation Errors

This guide assumes installation on any supported OS.  

This guide offers support for common issues faced when first installing LORIS. It is assumed that all installation steps provided have been 
correctly followed and that all required dependencies have been installed.

## Frontend Does Not Load/JavaScript changes not visible
The first thing to try is to run:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Before the `make`/`make dev` step could you add `make clean`? This sometimes fixes problems the other commands miss, for example this was a solution when #6220 was an issue.

# Troubleshooting Common Installation Errors

> This guide assumes installation on any supported OS.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide assumes installation on any supported OS, and was primarily written based on an Ubuntu 18 stack.  
```

The first thing to try is to run:

```bash
make
```

Alternatively, on development instances:

```bash
make dev
```

If that does not solve your issue, this could be because the Config table in the database is not pointing to the correct values. In this case, follow the following steps. 

1. Check the following values in the Config table via the MySQL backend.

   | Name | Label          | Value          |  
   | ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
   | base | Base           | $lorisRootDirectory |
   | host | Host           | $yourHostName  | 
    
   These values can be viewed by running the following commands:
    
   ```sql
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

2. If they do not match the above format, update these values with the following commands on the MySQL command-line.

   ```sql

>    UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourBasePath' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');

Reviewer: `$yourBasePath` should match whatever is on line 27 since they're referring to the same value. Either one is fine by me

Author: Thanks! Addressed

   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

3. Check the base path does not have a trailing slash at the end. If it does, update its value to remove it.

## Frontend Stylesheets Issues

> * Check/fix config paths via the mysql back-end

Reviewer: Seems like this is covered by the above section "Frontend does not load." These lines can be deleted

> service apache2 restart

Reviewer: I think this command may be specific to Ubuntu? It's probably sufficient to be general and say "Restart Apache" instead of providing a command.

## Admin login issues

> If have troubles to log in to LORIS with your admin user after an installation or upgrade, make sure your admin account record in the users table contains:                                                       

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unable to LORIS with your admin user after an installation or upgrade, make sure your admin account record in the users table contains:                                                       
```

# Troubleshooting Common Installation Errors

This guide assumes installation on any supported OS.  

This guide offers support for common issues faced when first installing LORIS. It is assumed that all installation steps provided have been 
correctly followed and that all required dependencies have been installed.

## Frontend Does Not Load/JavaScript changes not visible
The first thing to try is to run:

```bash
make
```

Alternatively, on development instances:

```bash
make dev
```

If that does not solve your issue, this could be because the Config table in the database is not pointing to the correct values. In this case, follow the following steps. 

1. Check the following values in the Config table via the MySQL backend.

   | Name | Label          | Value          |  
   | ---- | ----------- | ---------- |

>    | base | Base           | /var/www/loris |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | base | Base           | $lorisRootDirectory |
```

This is a suggested path in our installation documents but LORIS could be installed somewhere else on the system. If we want to use this value as an example we should add a note like "Assuming you have installed LORIS at the path `/var/www/loris`, ...."

   | host | Host           | $yourHostName  | 
    
   These values can be viewed by running the following commands:
    
   ```sql
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

2. If they do not match the above format, update these values with the following commands on the MySQL command-line.

   ```sql
   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourBasePath' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');
   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

> 3. Check the base path does not have a trailing slash at the end. If it does, update its value to remove it.

Reviewer: We should probably add a GitHub Issue for this. It seems like a bit of a silly bug that we should fix.

Author: Do you mean for step 3, with the trailing slash?

Reviewer: Yes, exactly

Reviewer: #6035 provides a function that can help with this.

## Frontend stylesheets issues

> [work in progress] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

All of the documentation on ReadTheDocs is technically a work in progress. I don't think we need to clarify that here. We can always add more information here.

Author: Thanks! Addressed

# Troubleshooting Common Installation Errors

This guide assumes installation on any supported OS, and was primarily written based on an Ubuntu 18 stack.  

This guide offers support for common issues faced when first installing LORIS. It is assumed that all installation steps provided have been 
correctly followed and that all required dependencies have been installed.

> ## Installation Roadblocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## MySQL 8 and PHP 7.3
```

This whole document is basically about installation roadblocks so this can be made more specific.

If you are running into issues when setting up your MySQL or MySQL user account and you are using MySQL 8 and PHP 7.3 
(instead of PHP 7.4), please read [this link](https://www.php.net/manual/en/mysqli.requirements.php) and also [this](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/upgrading-from-previous-series.html#upgrade-caching-sha2-password-compatible-connectors)

## Frontend Does Not Load/JavaScript changes not visible
The first command to try to run (under the _loris root_ directory):

```bash
make clean
```

Next, run one of the following commands depending on your environment:

```bash
make        # For production environments
make dev    # For development environments
```

If that does not solve your issue, this could be because the Config table in the database is not pointing to the correct values. In this case, follow the following steps. 

> 1. Check the following values in the Config table via the MySQL backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Check that the following values in the Config table are correct via the SQL backend.
```

Author: Thanks! This has been addressed.

   | Name | Label          | Value          |  
   | ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
   | base | Base           | $lorisRootDirectory |
   | host | Host           | $hostName  | 
    
   These values can be viewed by running the following commands:
    
   ```sql
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

> 2. If they do not match the above format, update these values with the following commands on the MySQL command-line.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand what you mean by "match the above format"

Author: I meant to say if they don't match your $lorisRootDirectory and $hostName. I can change this wording to make it more clear!

   | base | Base           | /var/www/loris |
   | host | Host           | $yourHostName  | 
    
   These values can be viewed by running the following commands:
    
   ```sql
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');
    SELECT c.configID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

2. If they do not match the above format, update these values with the following commands on the MySQL command-line.

   ```sql
   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourBasePath' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='base');
   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

3. Check the base path does not have a trailing slash at the end. If it does, update its value to remove it.

## Javascript changes not visible
Try is to run:

```bash
make
```

Alternatively, on development instances:

```bash
make dev

> ```

Reviewer: It might be good to fold this section `Frontend Not Loading` since it's the same info. Maybe that header could read "Frontend Does Not Load/JavaScript changes not visible"

Author: Thanks! Addressed

correctly followed and that all required dependencies have been installed.

## Frontend Does Not Load/JavaScript changes not visible
The first command to try to run (under the _loris root_ directory):

```bash
make clean
```

> If this does not solve the issue, you can try one of the following commands, depending on your environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, run one of the following commands depending on your environment:
```

`make clean` is more of a preparatory step than a replacement for one of the following.
